The AdultMNI152 head model originates via:

http://www.ucl.ac.uk/medphys/research/borl/resources/adultMNImodel [May 9 2017]:

From above page:

"Two MRI templates for the adult head are currently widely used in
literature, the Colin27 MRI atlas, (Collins et al., 1998) which
consists of a high-resolution MRI volume of the same individual,
scanned 27 times, and the non-linear MNI-ICBM152 atlas (Fonov et al,
2011), which is an MRI volume obtained averaging 152 individuals."

"We have therefore taken the non-linear MNI-ICBM152 atlas
(http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/ServicesAtlases/ICBM152NLin2009; this
material is subject to copyright: Copyright (C) 1993â€“2004 Louis
Collins, McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological
Institute, McGill University.) and we have produced a head model for
diffuse optical imaging. The segmentation of the scalp and skull has
been performed using the algorithm proposed by Perdue et al. (2014).

* The MNI-ICBM152 Head Model Package * 

The package available below contains the following components (in .txt
and .mat Matlab(R) formats) for the MNI-ICBM152 adult head atlas:

TissueMask.mat

The voxel space tissue mask with voxel size 1 x 1 x 1 mm. Each voxel
is assigned an index which defines tissue type.

TissueTypes.txt

A text file which links each segmented tissue type to its index
value. The defined tissue types are scalp, skull, cerebrospinal fluid,
grey matter and white matter.

HeadVolumeMesh.mat

The whole-head tetrahedral volume mesh in a matlab structure (.node,
.elem, .face). The node coordinates are in mm and are defined
according to the MNI coordinate system. Each element is assigned an
index which defines its tissue type (this is the 5th column of the
associated matlab field HeadVolumeMesh.elem). The 4th column of the
face field also defines its tissue type. The 4th column of the node
field defines the nodal tissue type.

ScalpSurfaceMesh.mat

The surface mesh of the external surface of scalp tissue layer in a
matlab structure (.node, .face). The node coordinates are in mm and
are defined according to the MNI coordinate system.

GMSurfaceMesh.mat

The surface mesh of the external surface of the grey matter tissue
layer in a matlab structure (.node, .face). The node coordinates are
in mm and are defined according to the MNI coordinate system.

WMSurfaceMesh.mat

The surface mesh of the external surface of the white matter tissue
layer in a matlab structure (.node, .face). The node coordinates are
in mm and are defined according to the MNI coordinate system.

LandmarkPoints.txt

The 3D locations of the Inion, Nasion, Ar and Al cranial landmarks in
mm. These points were defined on the tetrahedral volume mesh and
correspond to particular nodes in that mesh.

10-5_Points.txt

The 3D positions of 10-5 locations defined on the tetrahedral volume
mesh in mm. Includes the vertex, Cz.

This material is subject to copyright. It is freely available for use
but may not be used as part of any commercial product. Please ensure
that any use of this package is fully acknowledged in any publication."
